I just picked up a sick new OLED TV and
okay adamir 11 diagonal Ines the Sony X1
isn't going to impress your friends with
its size anymore but back in 2008 this
thing stunned the world with its organic
LED screen its shockingly thin profile
and of course its astronomical price
according to OLED info.com Sony
initially viewed this product as more of
a prototype but by the end of its run
tens of thousands of these little guys
had made their way into the hands of
wealthy eagle-eyed enthusiasts kind of
surprising given that even by 2008
standards it was woefully Impractical
what's more surprising is that as far as
OLED technology has come in 16 years it
still holds up shockingly well today I
mean just look at the definition of this
segue to today's sponsor see Sonic
reliability check aord ability check
efficiency ability double check take a
look at the new vertex lineup on sale
for Prime day using our Link in the
description back in 2007 OLED had been
invented and even featured in commercial
products like this Pioneer car stereo
but most people had only ever seen one
in a magazine or in an online article
and I still vividly remember the buzz
around this thing both from the
optimists who saw it as a window into
the future and from the haters who
criticized well everything cuz they're
haters I'm really excited to try it cuz
I never got a chance back then but first
let's do a quick tour shall we all the
brains are in this bottom box down here
and then it's attached using this kind
of funky arm to what is true to Sony's
marketing a shockingly thin panel though
it kind of reminds me of LG's earlier
OLED models where they had the really
really thin display but then a pretty
big caboose down at the bottom of them
there isn't much in the way of viewing
angle adjustments other than tilt though
if that's what it took for them to have
this tank like build quality honestly
I'm okay with it so many of these
survived that you can still readily find
them on eBay we got a big fat speaker
girl in the bottom that kind of makes it
look more like a Bluetooth speaker now
with display technology new product
category anyone huh music video
players uh anyway unlike a lot of old
display Tech that we look at it's modern
enough that we've got an HDMI input a
USB port in case we want to play our
MP4s RF coax a landport because we've
got the Japanese version and a handy
dandy headphone jack on the side in case
you want to quietly game or watch TV
next to your sleeping partner you know
if I hadn't been porish back in 2007 I
might have been able to see what a sick
bougie bedside TV this thing could be as
it was I was just
like fairness to me that's a pretty
reasonable reaction too let's give it a
shot almost feels wrong playing
PlayStation 5 on it but hey it can
doesn't support the most modern features
there's no variable refresh rate it's
only 60 HZ and even the resolution is a
little bit of an oddball it runs
960x 540 which is exactly one4 of the
pixel count of 1080p which even at the
time was weird because HD was often 136
6X 768 for some reason kind of makes me
wonder if like a 22in full HD model was
ever considered but then scrapped out of
concerns for cost I mean it have
probably been like 20 grand there's
definitely things about the display that
are not perfect by modern standards but
if you didn't tell me that this was 16
years old I would not know the motion
Clarity is awesome there's a bit of a
weird flicker almost like Black frame
insertion but it's super clear even just
like input leg is fine like dude this
plus a PS3 back in the day I mean yeah
you got to sit kind of close and
everything but like holy crap at this
size the resolution's fine overall the
most surprising thing about this to me
is how close it is to a modern device
even the marketing is the same uh Sony
boasted rapid pixel response times super
high contrast ratios thanks to Inky
blacks high peak brightness on a per
pixel level and they talked about the
thin panel all stuff that's only just
starting to give way to new marketing
Focus points like AI goodie now for
funsies what we wanted to do is take it
another step and compare it to Apple's
new Ultra Retina xdr Display with tandem
OLED this thing incredible not only does
the SDR and HDR accuracy rival the
$20,000 reference display that we looked
at last year but this thing get
bright and while 1600 nits isn't as high
as some of the newer OLED TVs this can
do a th000 nits full screen sustained
and there's just nothing else like that
at the moment though with that
said if we account for the differences
in
time boy is this ever impressive like
damn it looked good in games and I was
like wellow this looks really good for
the time in games but it's it's not even
HDR it just has nice Punchy SD HDR
didn't exist yet as a standard holy crap
what is going on right now this should
not look this close you can really see
it in a couple spots like when she
brings up the flame the flame gets
really bright like even there that it's
way brighter on the iPad Moon looks like
more highlighted on the iPad like you
can tell yeah and the colors are a
little off y I am super impressed right
now right it's so good oh yeah the
highlights look way better on the on the
iPad little bit of a green cast to that
brown we'll get to color accuracy later
but if I took this away and you said
watch this movie enjoy this movie I
would enjoy this movie I was dude when I
pitched the comparison to this for the
video cuz this was something I asked
plof to arrange for my expectation was
that it was really going to put in the
development that had been done over the
last 16 years instead all it's really
showing us is how far ahead Sony was now
there's issues it falls short of the
coverage of even the srgb color space
and while it's average Delta e 2000 of
6.36 is about in line with high-end LCDs
at the time it's on a completely
different planet from our calibrated
tandm OLED even if it's the sort of
thing that only a big nerd is likely to
notice frankly these ended up looking so
close to each other that we were digging
around in the shield menu to find out if
it was doing some kind of HDR to SDR
tone mapping or something that was
giving the xcl1 an advantage but it just
looks really good I mean I ran into the
same thing on my TCL TV at home where
SDR content looks great on it because it
just allows itself to take full
advantage of its full brightness giving
it a more poppy HDR look even if you're
definitely missing some color volume and
in How to Train Your Dragon that
difference in color volume we saw that
in the night scenes where there wasn't
enough saturation also the difference in
color accuracy are very noticeable you
can really see the pink cast in the sky
here compared to a properly calibrated
display one thing that's come a really
long way in the last couple decades is
audio performance in compact devices so
I'll be curious to see how the speakers
are and now
spinning not too loud you got to kind of
crank it useless
reptile okay I'm sorry I'm sorry just
get me off of this thing good dialog
Clarity though God this is a good
soundtrack and these speakers do not do
it
justice plug your headphones in yeah
plug your headphones
in which isn't a guarantee they'll sound
good hold on I'd watch theit out of
movies like this
yeah it's almost like dialogue
enhancement is on yeah so the music
score is not standing out enough the
clarity if I was an elderly person
watching content on here though is
outstanding there's a whole other
paragraph scripted talking about how
they compare to each other and I just
don't know if we need it because you can
have the conversation of well which one
is the more bestest in these specific
ways but at the end of the day for most
people that's not what they're asking
what they're asking is am I enjoying
this experience and I am even seeing it
next to the State ofth art I am I don't
need it but one area where a lot of
advancements have been made are in OLED
longevity we did notice some reverse
burning on the display where the sides
are a little bit brighter than the
middle and our suspicion is that this is
because a lot of content back then was
letter boxed so those pixels probably
weren't used as much now part of why our
Sony looks so good is it's taking
advantage of modern processing trick
that didn't exist back when it came out
it's hooked up to an Nvidia Shield but
part of why it looks so good is that
it's just kind of incredible so I guess
the question is why did it take so long
to get from this to this well research
and development costs a lot even at the
best of times and unlike with LCD which
can be manufactured in a few separate
parts before being assembled OLED is put
together in mostly a singular package so
instead of a product ecosystem with a
few companies that are focused on
components like backlight Liquid Crystal
layer color filter polarization film and
then tossing individual components if
there are errors within the batch it's
one company focused on one finished good
for the most part speaking of Errors you
can get notified about our next round of
scribe drivers at LTT store.com every
pen is made of a failed screwdriver
shaft so you can own your own piece of
one of my most expensive mistakes
another huge Factor making OLED
expensive is the difference in yields
from a single sheet of motherg glass due
to the Precision and cleanliness that
are required at the deposition step to
make an OLED panel display companies
needed to learn to work more like a
semiconductor Fab you vaporize organic
material in a vacuum and you deposit the
sublimated particles perfectly onto the
mother glass a bit too much material or
a bit too much moisture or heat during
this process and that entire sheet is
ruined necessitating the use of clean
rooms on the other hand LCD is a lot
more tolerant to dust and defect so in a
less perfect environment you could still
get a perfectly working panel and don't
forget just like with our OLED here LCD
prototypes and little concept models
were coming out decades before we saw a
mass adoption of that technology
companies like Epson and sharp were
releasing early LCDs as far back as the
1980s and it wasn't until about 20 years
later that big for the time 40 50 60in
LCD TVs started replacing the bulky CRTs
in everyone's living rooms so the
progress here is largely thanks to LG if
we're being realistic who really banked
on making OLED a premium but obtainable
option and who contined to invest in new
Innovations like the tandem OLED panel
that this iPad has that Stacks two OLED
layers on top of each other to produce
that Brighter Image now that the
competition's heating up though and
Manufacturing processes are a lot more
mature and there's some actual demand
thanks to HDR advances on the content
side of things who knows in another four
years OLED whether it's tandem QD W or
otherwise could be your standard issue
and future Technologies like microed or
man those emissive quantum dot ones woo
might finally start popping up in the
premium consumer space just like this
segue to who our sponsor is popping up
in my personal space delete me you may
know how to keep your digital identity
private but how about those you care
about delete me's family plans cover not
just you but your loved ones as well
with their family account management you
can easily add and monitor personalized
protection for each member this means
reducing the risk of exposure to spam
and scams for both kids and adults it
really is as simple as setting up
everyone's profile then leaving the rest
to the team to hunt down and remove data
plus if you're ever curious about what
information is is removed delet me can
send out quarterly personalized reports
for everyone under your plan so keep
yourself and your family protected from
data Brokers hit up our Link in the
description and use code LT at checkout
for 20% off any delete me plan if you
guys enjoyed this video make sure to
check out the CRT versus OLED video I
think the results might surprise you wa
this thing gets hot dude 38 Watts
passively cooled in a chassis this
size she toasts